Hello everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host as always Ricardo Loops.
And today I'm joined by Doctor Leo Papa. She
is a tendered researcher at the Institute of Science,
Cognitive Mac uh Jan of the San Nacional de La
Research Scientific in France and principal investigator of the research
program, the Temple funded by a European Research Council
starting grant. And today we're talking about social perception
, basically what we pay attention to in other people
and their interactions and the social information we get from
that. So, Doctor Pao, welcome to the
show. It's a big pleasure to everyone. Thanks
for having me. So when it comes to how
we perceive other people, what are the kinds of
things we usually pay attention to? So um attention
depends on um a number of things, depends on
the salience of the stimuli. So how salient the
stimuli are to our eyes. So for instance,
a bright red object is going to attract our attention
more than a dark small object. But at the
same time, attention also depends on our internal goals
, what we are looking for in what we see
. And so it's a very interesting balance between the
outside world and our internal mental representation. And uh
um so, in the case, when it comes
to people, uh so others on specifics, um
there are uh the first thing that like the first
thing that we attend to are, are the uh
the research in cognitive neuroscience has suggested that there is
a sort of a hierarchy of the things that we
care about first and this hierarchy goes by eyes,
face and then the rest of the body. So
, um but again, like a what what we
we attend first depends on what we are looking for
in the outside world. So for instance, if
we are looking, for instance, for an object
, for an interaction with another person, we might
, we might, we might be attending more the
limbs. So the arms, the hands than the
face, but generally a good, a good summary
is that, you know, the face and eyes
come first. But when we look at other people
and will later on in our conversation, we're going
to get into more detail in terms of, for
example, when people are facing one another or in
terms of how they uh present themselves in relation to
1 to 1 another, what kinds of things we
pay attention to and what kinds of information we get
from those kinds of, let's say interactions? Are
there generally speaking, are there particular kinds of information
that we are looking for? When we perceive other
people in either in isolation or in interaction with others
. Um So, um we pay attention to a
lot of things uh because we, we care about
a lot of things. Uh But uh um we
can uh synthesize these uh um the features that we
care about in two categories. One is uh those
features that help us to understand who is the other
, who the other is, who are you And
the others are the features that uh uh help us
understand what are you doing? So there are these
two aspects of another that we consider very important for
our immediate behavior and also for our survival. So
when we look at another, at another person,
uh we are very efficient, our system, our
visual system is very efficient at extracting a number of
important pieces of information that allow to, for instance
, decide or establish surely the gender, the age
, we have very sensitive to the cues that suggest
the age of our, of the other, the
origin, the race. There are, there is
a full line of research suggesting that there are very
subtle ways in which difference in the race of the
others affect our behavior. Um And uh uh of
course, uh also we can extract information from just
the visual appearance by just looking at the others,
we can start information about the status, for instance
, how dominant the person is in the social hierarchy
and the state. So the mental state, the
mood of the person. There are beautiful experiments showing
that just by looking at the motion pattern. So
the way in which another uh moves we are very
accurate in determining uh uh their emotion, whether it
is happy or sad and so on. And this
is, you know, the category of features that
I define as those that allow us to understand who
the other is. But then there is another set
of features that we are very good at uh processing
and extracting from visual information from just looking at the
others, which are the features that allow us to
understand what the other is up to what it is
about to do. Um And these features are especially
important in the context of social interaction. So it's
very important um to uh observe the others interacting between
each other with each other to construct a number of
features that allow us to understand. Uh again,
is a role in the society in a, in
a specific context, but also more generally, um
whether a person is uh um in the, in
the social hierarchy above or below the other person,
uh the level of intimacy, the social distance.
Uh And also from the way in which two interact
with each other, we can immediately understand with a
very fine sensitivity to the motion patterns, the way
in which people move and interact with each other,
whether they're having a they are in a friendly relationship
, whether they're sharing the same goal or they are
competing, whether they're helping each other and so on
. All these, all this information comes out of
almost a first glance to the others. A and
B. By the way, uh, you mentioned
, uh, several different things there, like,
for example, people's race or ethnicity, I mean
, uh, uh, do we know to what
extent some of the things or the kinds of informations
we, uh, the kind of information we want
to acquire from other people and the kinds of things
and behaviors we pay attention to. I, if
at least to some extent they are culturally learned.
There is, I mean, my pay, paying
attention to one person's ethnicity is something that I learn
culturally to pay attention to or if all of these
things or at least a few of them, uh
, are sort of quote unquote, I innate.
There is even newborns already pay some attention to some
of these features and behaviors. W what do we
know exactly about that? So that's, um,
that's a very interesting question that has been the subject
of, uh, research for decades. Uh And
, uh, of course, there are many unknown
, so many things that we don't know yet.
But, uh, uh, certainly, uh,
we can say that humans are born with, uh
, uh, innate, an innate or at least
very early when I say early, I mean,
within hours from birth ability to recognize faces to detect
a specific kind of motion which we call biological motion
. And that's the specific way in which biological entities
moves, that is very different. For instance,
from the mechanical motion. Uh humans are also born
with uh uh a very early capacity to uh attend
to the other side and know where the others are
looking at us. So when we are being addressed
, relative to when the others are looking somewhere else
, and we also have a very early uh and
efficient capacity to follow the other gaze. So to
know that's one of the first thing, maybe the
most important thing that we uh look at when we
process others where they're looking, which anticipates or predicts
what they are going to do. So if they
are looking at me, this is probably a signal
, a very strong signal of social engagement is looking
for social engagement is looking away, OK, where
he or she is looking. So these are the
things that uh infants within hours or days from birth
are very sensitive to. And uh um we share
many of these processes, many of these mechanisms that
make us so efficient in processing socially relevant stimuli with
non human species. Like we have seen in a
similar uh behaviors, very early behaviors in uh various
species of monkeys, but also in uh uh chickens
, for instance, or in a species that um
are farther away from us. Uh Then there are
other aspects as you asked about the race or the
age, there are other aspects that emerge relatively early
. So there are, there is, for instance
, this phenomenon known as the, as the other
race effect, which refers to the um to the
basically very early sensitivity to uh people or to individuals
who are from a different race than ours. Uh
There is something similar, for instance, in speech
perception, this early sensitivity to differentiate between uh speech
sound that are from our native language and speech sounds
that are from another language. For instance, Indians
have some uh uh uh uh sounds, some phonological
sounds that we don't have like the the we don't
have these sounds in our language. And very early
on infants are capable of discriminating between the sounds of
their native language and sounds from other languages. But
this is this kind of, you know, sensitivity
to these more culturally determined differences um seems to be
the result of a learning process which operates very rapidly
again, within months from birth, infants can make
this subtle discrimination. But it's because when they are
born, they are born and they are immediately immersed
in a very rich social environment. And so they
immediately pick up the features that are typical or their
native social environment and immediately become capable of distinguishing those
features that are very important from their integration in their
own society, from uh features that don't belong to
their own, to their own cultural uh group.
So in my first question, one of the things
you mentioned that people and also infants in this case
, pay lots of attention to is the face,
in particular features of the face, like the eyes
. For example, eye gaze, uh apart from
eye gaze, what are some of the other features
of the face that people tend to pay attention to
? And what kinds of information do we get from
that? Um The uh human ability to process a
phase is impressive. I would say that there is
nothing that uh uh uh there is nothing that is
so efficient, so uh tuned uh uh than the
human ability for face perception. So just by looking
at the face, we, as I said,
we are able to, first of all immediately recognize
the identity and discriminate between the two faces even when
there is a lot of similarity. Um And uh
uh there are uh there are again, two different
aspects, uh two different categories of features that we
uh uh one category is uh uh what allows us
to identify a person. So as I said,
to categorize a person in terms of gender, race
, age. And if we know the person also
immediately assign a name to that person, an identity
to that person. And so immediately retrieve all the
, you know, knowledge and information that we have
about that person. This this is a very rapid
, very efficient mechanism. And then there is another
uh family, another set of features that allows us
to uh uh to establish, to, to,
to process the actions of the face. And in
the case of faces, actions uh are uh manifestation
of manifestation of two things. One is the communication
. So by looking at faces, just the way
in which the face move uh moves is very important
for uh speech perception. For we know that if
we have access to the face of the speaker,
our speech processing, so our ability to process and
to understand what the speaker is saying is much more
efficient. And there are a lot of interesting phenomena
that show that in fact, the facial movements can
affect also the acoustic signal, the acoustic information what
we hear. So if I show him movement of
the lips that is not compatible with the sound that
I'm producing, that the speaker is producing. And
there are very nice experiments that manipulate the mismatch between
the lips movement and and the sound you see that
we perceive a distorted sound, which means that what
we see in the movements of the face affects what
we hear. And also the second, the second
type of action information conveys uh um information about emotions
. We know that uh you know, very,
we have a very rich repertoire of facial uh actions
that convey um as well rich um set of different
emotions. And so these two family like the features
to define who a person is and the features to
define what the the face is doing is trying to
communicate. Um of course, are tightly related but
can also be dissociated. And when I say dissociated
, I imply that they are actually um features that
are processes in partially different parts of the brain,
of course, very strongly integrated. So now I
would like to ask you about something very specific that
I read about in your work. What is facing
di perception? And does it relate in any way
to face perception? So um for many uh years
, um for many decades, cognitive neuroscience has studies
. Of course, we have this uh very strong
uh and understandable interest uh for social perception, social
cognition, how we understand how we recognize others.
But for many decades, these questions have been,
these questions have been addressed by uh studying uh the
perception of the processing of individual faces, individual bodies
, individual movements. Uh until uh when um researchers
including myself and the people working with me uh decided
to see uh to study what happens to all these
beautiful mechanism that I've been talking about uh to process
faces, motion bodies. When instead of seeing one
face, one person, you see two people together
, all these um sensitivity, all these tuning to
all these features is preserved or there is something else
that happens and what we have seen. So the
main interesting result that we found when we started asking
this kind of question was that as I said the
faces are very special to our visual system and to
the whole brain because they are fundamental to understand interact
, to recognize others. But what we saw is
that um when we see instead of one phase,
two phases, uh all these uh very efficient uh
uh processing uh is preserved, particularly one, the
others are perceived as if they are interacting, which
means face to face. So we did a very
simple experiment. We, we were studying, you
know, the the efficiency of visual recognition of multiple
bodies. And so we presented the pairs of bodies
in different special configurations. And we soon realized that
subjects were particularly efficient at recognizing multiple bodies as efficient
as they are at recognizing one face when these two
bodies are put face to face relative to when they
are in any other configuration. And so that was
the first insight. The first in the first uh
uh piece of information that suggests to us that there
might be something really special uh in the brain uh
uh about uh uh the perception of what we call
the facing diet. Now, why the fishing diet
? Why two people face to face would be special
to our visual system? Well, this is an
open question but the intuitive response is that this configuration
, when we put two people face to face,
this is the prototypical configuration of human social interactions.
So when we interact with others, we privilege this
face to face positioning, because this face to face
positioning gives us access to the other side to the
others. Face full face. So we can extract
information about uh emotions. And uh also uh it
gives us access to the whole body. So it's
the the perfect viewpoint to have as much information as
possible from the other. And so to facilitate uh
interaction. And so the idea is that this facial
configuration, these are, these are face to face
configuration of body is so important for our social life
and so redundant. So, recurrent in our social
environment that the human brain has developed a mechanism that
make the processing of these two bodies especially efficient.
And this is confirmed by if we look at the
uh evolutionary psychology literature, uh you know, people
have studied uh how often humans spend, how much
time humans spend in certain, you know, special
positioning, special positions relative to each other. And
they have seen that not just humans, but also
monkeys and probably other species spend uh more than uh
the 50% of their time in social interaction, facing
, facing another. So face to face with another
. And most of the time uh I I uh
the most frequent composition involves two people. So face
to face di adding interaction seems to be uh an
important uh recurrent uh uh structure in our social life
in our social world. So this is already,
I guess one aspect of studying social sin perception,
right? And uh one of the things associated with
that or a concept, I guess in this case
is minimal social sin. So what is that concept
really about? And what can you study through it
? So it's uh uh it's uh this idea of
minimal. So social scenes refer to what I've just
described. So when we started this research, we
wanted to see to isolate, to get really like
we, we see a lot of interactions, all
kind of uh actions that people perform on each other
or with each other. Uh uh people act uh
in uh diets, in groups. So we have
crowds of people doing things together so that the social
interaction that the range of social interactions is possible.
Social interactions is very broad. But we wanted to
get to the minimal unit. What if we if
we remove all the unnecessary features and we get to
the core structure of the social interaction, what remains
and what remains is this uh uh two body configuration
. So this configuration that involves two bodies or two
phases in general, two people, two social agents
facing closely like in special proximity and facing each other
. So and this is this is really like.
So we decided to study this configuration of two bodies
is a facing diet just like we have studied other
objects in visual perception, just like we have studied
faces, we have studied bodies, we have studied
any other object in the world, we consider this
a new object of visual perception. This is a
configuration which is the early rudimentary representation of a social
interaction. Uh And so, uh we've talked earlier
about how people interpret when they see someone or a
di have of people facing each other. So apart
from facing each other, what are perhaps some of
the other kinds of cues that people take in when
distinguishing between an interacting and a non interacting, died
in crowds, for example. Yeah. So we
have uh again, just like in the case of
face perception, we are now this is a very
recent line of research that is really considering this new
object of social perception, which is not one body
, not one face, not one action but two
people together. And so we are now discovering all
the information that is rapidly extracted from this stimuli.
And so as you said, one is the relative
positioning, what we call the facing where they are
facing each other or not or they are facing away
from each other. But there are another uh a
large family of, of, of a large set
of cues that uh uh we, we think and
research suggests that are really relevant to process, to
initiate the processing of social interaction. Some of of
such cues are, for instance, as I said
, the special proxy, how close in space to
people are uh the touch, whether they are in
contact, they are touching or not. So uh
others are the mimicry, whether you know their body
postures or their facial expression look alike, which means
that which, which is a feature of the social
interaction. When we interact with someone, we tend
to have this automatic mimicry of their behavior. And
we can see from outside when two people are interacting
, they tend to uh imitate themselves, they tend
to coordinate or to synchronize. So, coordinations,
synchrony, miry um distance openness like the typically people
that are interacting and have this posture that is open
to each other. And these are very uh measurable
. We can take, you know, photos of
interacting people and really measure all these things. And
this is exactly what uh um scientists are doing right
now. Uh First of all, to understand which
are the the the the properties, the features of
an interaction that we process, that we extract the
uh uh from which we make is about the social
relationship between two people. But also to understand whether
there is a hierarchy between these things. So what
is the relation between these things? We don't have
the answer to this question yet. But you know
, intuitively, 1 may think that if two people
are face to face, they are probably interacting or
this is what our brain spontaneously. But uh you
know, if you start manipulating the distance, so
you increase the distance between them, probably the effect
of facings starts, you know, diminishing, diminishing
. So and it would be interesting to see at
which point, the distance breaks the effect of facings
whether it does it at all. So basically,
this is the kind of questions that we are now
asking to um to, to understand how because that's
the thing. The question is not whether we understand
social interaction and what we understand about social interaction.
Because we do understand social interaction, we are very
, very rapid at you know, understanding what kind
of relation there is between two people just by looking
at these people. And uh we understand a lot
of things, we can extract a lot of kind
of information just by looking at how two people interact
with each other. But the question that we're trying
to answer is how we do it, how our
brain does it. So this is why it's important
to understand. OK, what are the basic cues
that the visual system extracts from the structure of the
input or from what we see outside that starts this
process that then leads to a full understanding of the
social interaction. And of course, it's very interesting
to understand or know what these basic cues are.
I mean, the basic kinds of things that people
pay attention to in the social scene to perceive and
interpret how people relate to one another and what people
are doing that is socially relevant there. But I
I would imagine that something that is also very interesting
to understand these uh of course, we do this
and in the split of a second it's lots of
information but we process it very, very quickly.
But at the same time, I mean, it's
not like isolated cues but we are sort of taking
it all in, at the same time. I
mean, it's like several different cues that we process
very quickly. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So
that's, uh, um, like, uh,
you know, the, of course, uh,
the, the result of uh this uh uh process
is uh extremely impressive, as you said in the
um in, in a few uh tens or hundreds
of milliseconds. So we are capable of, you
know, not exactly exactly who you are, what
you're doing and what's your relationship with another? If
you think about it, it's pretty impressive. Now
, the question again is how the brain does it
. So we are uh a little bit uh uh
like farther away from an answer to this question for
tourism. As I said, like we know a
lot about face perception and body perception and biological motion
perception. And that's a good basis I think to
start this enterprise of, you know, understanding how
we understand our complex social world. But uh um
you know, there are questions that are because of
course, understanding what the others are doing and how
they relate to each other also requires to understand what
they, what they have in mind, to understand
their goals, their intention, their motivations and uh
uh these, these questions fall under the big umbrella
of social cognition, um social neuroscience. And uh
this is a very young enterprise. We have begun
asking this question uh a few years ago and uh
there is a lot of effort and a lot of
energy, a lot of resources now that are dedicated
to this kind of research, mostly because it's clear
that uh um the society that we are building,
that we have built and that we are building relies
on our ability to manage people, to organize a
group of people, to understand how people relate to
each other. So to be able to sustain this
kind of social environment that we live in, we
have to understand as much as we can about the
human social brain. But uh again, this is
a very young uh enterprise. And so most of
the questions are still open to, to discussion.
Mhm Right. So, and since we're talking here
also about the brain, of course, um And
we are referring mostly to spatial information, spatial cues
, they are processed of course by the visual system
. And is it the case that socially relevant spatial
relations are represented visually differently than stimuli that are just
unrelated or appear unrelated to one another? Yeah,
absolutely. So this is basically the uh one of
the main findings of our research in the, in
the recent years. Uh So, uh as I
said, we have first uh uh found uh uh
initial evidence in our, in our empirical data and
our empirical results suggesting that uh uh facing individuals,
which is our, which is a proxy of social
interacting individuals. So when I say facing, I'm
implying that this positioning is somehow suggesting to our brain
that these two people are interacting. And this is
why it's so important for our brain. So as
I said, we have found that facing individuals are
processed uh uh more efficiently than the very same individuals
uh in, in a different special relation. And
uh uh we have begun to show that uh the
very specialized mechanism that uh we have learned to appreciate
in perception, also apply to this configuration of seemingly
interacting bodies, so face to face bodies. And
uh uh and then we have found that I use
a lot of uh functional MRI, which is a
neuroimaging methodology that allows to record the brain at work
while it's working. So to look into the brain
uh uh to measure the brain activity during um any
kind of cognitive task. And uh so using F
MRI, we have seen that visually in the visual
areas. So in the areas dedicated to face body
, biological motion perception, the very same bodies.
So the two the two bodies, the very same
bodies are processed differently when they are face to face
, relative to when they're back to back. And
this is pretty impressive because uh so we just had
a similar with the two bodies either positioned face to
face or identically just flipped so that they look back
to back. So from a visual viewpoint, these
two stimuli carry exactly the same information. The same
amount of information is exactly the same number of pixels
, the same body shapes, the same postures,
the same color brightness, all the visual information that
you think of. But just the fact that they
are face to face, their positioning, to face
each other or facing away from each other drives all
kinds of different different effects in the visual cortex.
So for instance, the visual cortex and in general
, the level of activity in the areas for face
and body perception is significantly higher. So the regions
respond more when the bodies are face to face,
relative to when the two people are back to back
, which is already I think very interesting. But
also, uh for instance, uh we have found
using more sophisticated analytic methods uh on uh uh uh
F MRI data that uh the representation of each individual
body is more accurate. So the brain represent each
individual body better if the body appears in a relation
in a social relation with another than when the body
is presented in isolation. So yeah, the the
the short answer is that yes, there is something
special and when I say special, I mean face
like special in a sense. And so as I
said repeatedly uh is like a face perception is the
gold standard of the efficiency of human visual perception.
And so what we see is that some of these
very efficient mechanisms that we have evolved developed to process
faces are used to process interacting people. And so
still about perception that there's something very specific that I
haven't asked you about yet. So what is body
form and body motion perception? And in what ways
exactly do these specific kinds of perception contribute to processing
social events? So uh these are uh body but
form and body motion are the two fundamental component of
the visual system uses to build representation of an action
. So to understand another's action, so what another
person for instance is doing but it is true also
for the action of animals and also for the movements
of objects we need to extract mentioned about their structure
. So for instance, in the case of a
person, um how the various body parts are positioning
with respect to each other. So if the hand
is here or here, this defines a different body
posture, so a different body shape. So this
is the body form um information and then there is
the other side that is the motion. So how
the position of each part changes from time to time
and this defines the motion pattern. So these are
two different aspects that then they are integrated. So
these are the body form and our body shape and
the body motion uh are dissociated different uh different processes
. Uh also because they are um uh implemented,
they are computed in different parts in different brain regions
. So we know that these are two different aspects
. But of course, the regions that care about
the body motion and the regions that care about body
shape work uh in sync work really like in a
close interaction with each other. We say that they
are functionally connected because the information needs to be integrated
to deliver the representation of an action of an action
, which is the beginning of the process for action
understanding. So we first need to understand the body
posture, the body motion. And from there,
we can start all the inferential processes that allow us
to understand what the other, what the other's action
goal is, uh what the intention of the others
are. And this, this is what we call
the social inference. By the way body form and
body motion perception are these in any way forms of
embodied cognition. So, um no, these are
visual processes. So the idea of embodied cognition,
the general idea of embodied cognition is that uh uh
much of our cognitive life depends on our uh experience
in the environment. So it's based on in particularly
impact in particular our motor experience. So uh but
when I talked about the body uh form and body
motion, I was referring to visual processes like the
processing tool to extract information uh from the physical structure
of the of the of the input. Now does
our experience, our experience, our action, motor
experience in the environment affects the way in which we
process other actions and the social interactions. So we
know that uh of course, like we uh we
are in, we are in bodies like the brain
is integrated in a body that has a certain type
of experience. And the the way like our history
of interaction, the environment affects how we perceive other
actions. There is a very rich and complex literature
on this, you know, relationship between action,
understanding and the mo motor experience. We know much
less about how our experience of social interaction, so
of interacting with others affect the way in which we
understand others, social interactions. I I think there
is no, there is no really like a fully
developed line of research yet on this. But uh
you know, like uh uh there are a number
of nontrivial questions to ask. For instance, the
idea is that when I observe and others perform another
, performing an action in order to understand that's the
basic idea of embodiment to understand what the other is
doing. I need to sort of use this as
simulation process. I have to internally simulate the same
action and this allows me to understand what the others
is doing. But now in the context of social
interaction, I'm observing two people or more people interacting
with each other. So how does the motor simulation
work like can we simulate multiple actions at the same
time? So there are more people interacting. Our
motor system is busy at you know, simulating all
these actions like simultaneously. We are not sure the
motor system can do it. We we are not
sure the motor system can hold the representation of multiple
motor programs at the same time. And uh oh
you know, we can think oh maybe the the
the visual system selects the most important the more of
two agents. And this is what it follows that
there is research that shows that we are very good
at detecting in an interaction, who is the agent
and who is the patient. So who is the
one who is acting on the other? And so
maybe, and we know that um the the system
, the brain privileges information about agents. So one
possibility is that the motor simulation also privileges the simulation
of the action of the person who is recognized as
the agent. But again, these are all possible
solutions. But uh we don't know the answer yet
, but at least potentially there's some space for embodied
cognition here. Oh, there is always a space
for embodied cognition. It's a, it's a um
it's a very interesting uh uh uh angle to look
at how uh human cognition in general, like by
you know, relating the mind and the brain to
the rest of the body. This is absolutely interesting
because as I said cognition doesn't happen in a vacuum
. We are in a body and what happens to
our body certainly affects our brain and our mind.
But uh I'm also, I also have a very
critical view of embodied cognition because uh I think there
are a lot of things, a lot of representations
that don't depend on motor experience on our experience are
totally independent from the, from motor experience. And
uh so sometimes I tend to be a little bit
critical to the views that want to reduce the whole
human cognition to motor experience. Mhm So now I
have a couple of questions that I think you've already
at least slightly touched on them earlier. But when
it comes to social representations is the social entity itself
as important as the relation that binds multiple entities together
. So, yeah, um I think the relation
is uh uh all that matters in uh in the
social life uh in uh in for social cognition.
And uh to the point that uh um when we
see when we perceive a relation between the two social
agents, between two people, uh we, the
brain creates a whole new representation that uh has almost
nothing to do with the two people itself. Like
what I mean? And we, we have,
we have shown it uh uh really like empirically.
So um when we see two objects, the neural
response to uh the two objects seen simultaneously is typically
a linear combination of the response to the two single
objects. So we can from, from the response
to the two objects together, we can retrieve information
about the two single object. Because the, the
information about the two single object is maintained in the
representation of this composite representation that involves both objects.
So if I see a pen and see if I
see these two objects, and I measure the response
to this first in the brain. And then I
measure the response to this in the brain. And
then I measure the response to them both presented together
. This response is typically an average of some linear
combination of the response to the two single objects.
But now what we see is that uh when uh
we see two people and these two people are represented
in a social interaction, the response to these two
people is a non linear combination of the response to
each individual body presented in isolation. And this non
linear combination of the response to the individuals is an
indication that the brain is building a new representation that
has almost nothing to do with the individuals. And
this new representation is basically the, the the the
core input for the social cognition system. So yeah
, the relation is perhaps more important than the individuals
themselves. A and the relation is almost uh or
perhaps it is even a different entity or a different
kind of representation than the two individual people. And
even the two individual people interacting with one another.
I mean, it, it's a thing in and
of itself. Right. Yes. Abso, that's
, that's, again, that's, I was too
uh enthusiastic in my. Yes. But uh that's
my guess at the moment. Uh uh Yeah,
it's uh it's uh we have uh empirical data using
F MRI using electroencephalography that uh um uh can isolate
this integrative response that suggests that the brain is transforming
the input into into something that is a new thing
that has nothing to do with the input itself.
And we have seen this signature of integration a lot
when it comes to the perception of interact, social
, interacting people. And when it comes to the
brain, do we know if there's actually visual specialization
for diab human human interactions? I mean is there
a specialization for that specifically or not? Yeah,
absolutely. As I said, we have recorded using
F MRI, we have recorded from visual cortex,
from visual regions and we have seen that there are
some very similar active parts of the visual system that
seems to like facing diets more than anything else.
So this is already one signature of specialization we have
seen even in behavioral task like if we present stimuli
around the perceptual threshold. So in very low visibility
conditions, so we are used to do this experiment
to isolate the limits of visual perception. And so
we present a stimuli, for instance, low contrast
stimuli very rapidly to the subject and the subject have
to report whether they have seen a stimulus or not
. And we see that and this is one of
the ways to measure the efficiency of in the perception
of a given type of stimuli. And what we
see is that again, when we present these facing
bodies, the system is much faster. So the
responses are much faster and much more accurate than when
present bodies in isolation or in other kinds of special
relations. So we have a behavioral, we have
F MRI, we have ee electroencephalographic signature of that
suggests that there is a visual specialization for uh fishing
diets. And uh visual specialization means that uh we
just have uh uh very efficient mechanisms to detect this
kind of configuration in the space. So for instance
, if I present subjects with very clot, the
rich and noisy visual scene that has a tool facing
people somewhere in this scene, we have seen that
subjects immediately find these stimulus in the in the clutter
. And this is again another signature of the visual
efficiency. So earlier, we've talked about the kinds
of cues that people process in looking at the social
scene and interpreting it as for example, when looking
at the diet of people as interacting or non interacting
. But how do we go from spatial relations between
people to uh perhaps trying to extract some information about
the kind of relationship they have with one another and
how much information can we extract from them uh about
that. So, as I said, unfortunately,
I cannot give you an answer about how, because
we are just at the beginning of this enterprise.
So maybe in a few years, we'll be able
to know how we go from, you know,
putting together. So the visual system knows that the
two people are face to face, they are closing
space, they are touching each other, maybe uh
they are, they have outstretched limbs toward each other
. So they have all these features. So immediately
the visual system um uh represents OK, this might
be a social interaction. And so this information package
is put is sent into the, you know,
high level networks for social inference, the so called
social brain network. And from here, how do
we come to understand for instance that these two people
are two lovers, for instance, or our two
enemies are competing? It's less clear what I can
say is that again, we are very sensitive to
small v in the spatial temporal patterns. So for
instance, the way in which one object moves with
respect to another can be immediately interpreted as having a
positive or negative intention. So and you know,
if you just a small acceleration in the movement of
an object relative to another object can suggest that one
is chasing the other or that the one. So
it's one that is chasing the other or that the
other is escaping from the other like in small variation
in the acceleration, for instance, can give a
completely different cognitive representation, mental representation of what we
see. But again, the computational uh machinery that
does this from, you know, seeing bodies faces
facing each other, especially close to understand the the
rich nature of a social interaction. That's really an
open question. And do we have a good idea
of what of what are the areas of the brain
that are part of the network that that processes processes
social information. Yeah, I mean, we do
. Um so definitely there is a uh an important
contribution of visual areas. As I said, we
have been discussing this so far, like uh visual
areas, extract of a lot, a lot of
of useful information for social inference. And um and
uh I I'd say that uh because of the importance
of uh the social life from our survival, we
have developed a number of very efficient mechanisms to do
so. So visual mechanism dedicated to uh extract the
socially radical information. But then uh uh outside the
the visual system, the visual system is just the
entry of the information in the brain and outside of
the visual information in the brain. But then outside
the visual system, there, there is no one
network, there are many networks that uh uh implement
processes that are relevant for uh social cognition. For
instance, the action understanding network is the network dedicated
it one and the action and what understanding and action
means means, understand the goals and intentions of an
action. There is uh the, the mind or
the mentalis network, which is another set of regions
that is dedicated to what we call mind reading,
what's in another mind, what the others are thinking
also, we are very good at that and we
don't know how that happens. And um and uh
uh then there is, of course, the semantic
system, the conceptual system that represent all the knowledge
that we have about the others. And in particular
, the social knowledge seems to be a very specific
type of knowledge that is represented probably in dedicated part
of the larger semantic system. So yeah, uh
what we need to understand is really the specific computation
in each of these regions and also how the information
travels within these networks and how this network uh networks
interact with each other. Let me just add the
la last thing uh I talked a lot about visual
information, socially relevant visual information because that's what I
study. But you know, there is there,
there is not just vision, there are other sensory
modalities and the other sensory modalities carry also a lot
of relevant information for social cognition. Uh As we
talked about briefly about the speech, the acoustic signal
, there's nothing more social speech. And uh the
smell is another um field that uh is um uh
is is receiving a lot of attention uh because it's
probably one of the fundamental uh uh foundations of it
provides some foundations to uh social relationships. So it's
um it's a, it's a long, it's gonna
be a long way. Yeah, of course,
it's important to mention that, that we here today
were we were focusing on spatial relations and on visual
information because that's the main focus of your research.
But of course, we do not only process visual
information but also information from the other senses when interacting
with other people. It's important to, to,
to, to say so, so not just because
it's fair for our colleagues who don't study vision,
but also because uh vision is one of the most
if not the most studied aspect of the human brain
. Uh And some believe that vision is also the
main sensory modality for humans. Uh Some agree,
some don't agree with that, but it's true that
we are, we have a representation of the brain
that is very much centered on visual processing. But
it's uh it's uh it's fair to acknowledge that,
you know, there are other important modalities and in
fields of research that needs to be acknowledged. Of
course. So let's get into our last topic slash
questions. So we've been focusing on humans here.
But what about the nonhuman animals? Because I mean
, we as people, I guess that we also
look at the spatial relations, body configurations of other
animals. And for example, there are some biped
animals and some quadrupeds as well. So do we
distinguish in specific ways between those two? And how
does that work? Uh on the level of the
brain neurologically? So there are two aspects of this
research. I'm trying to answer them both. The
first one is uh our perception of other animals that
are nonhumans. Uh So, um uh the mechanism
that I described the first general answer to the question
is that all the mechanism that I described so far
uh like this ability to process phases, biological motion
bodies. So this is why I talk about faces
, biological motion, bodies, bodies and not human
bodies, not human faces, non human motion,
because these especially individual cortex, the regions that cares
about this, that care about this important aspect of
the social life, recognizing faces, bodies, motion
um operate over uh any animate entity. So they
don't seem to care much whether a face is a
human face or a monkey face. For instance,
the fusiform face area, which is the region that
responds to phases that has this very strong selective response
to phases, doesn't show very reliable difference between a
human face and a monkey phase or a cat phase
. And the same is for the regions that process
motion, they process biological motion. So any kind
of motion that looks like the property of a biological
motion relative to mechanic motion. But uh uh they
don't have much uh you know, fine uh fine
grain distinctions in terms of, you know, uh
the the species that is uh moving, whether it's
a human or not. So, you know,
uh one line of research, we really asked the
question, whether the visual system really doesn't help at
all in the distinction between a human and nonhuman animals
, which is very important us, I mean,
we need to know whether and animating is a human
is a conspecific or not. And we were very
, I was very particularly surprised by the research on
biological motion because it was a little bit confusing,
like most of the field was talking about biological motion
, but some authors were talking about, you know
, these regions being tuned to human motion. So
I wanted to see whether they are really tuned to
human motion, which means that these regions are capable
of distinguishing what is human from what is non human
. Or in fact, they are picking up some
feature in the motion that is typical of humans,
but they don't really what is a human and what
is a nonhuman thing. So the intuition, the
idea that we had was OK, we can uh
uh present videos of uh uh four kind of animate
entities. A walking man, just a human who
walks another human, a baby crawling uh cat,
pa four legs crawling and uh a cat is a
nonhuman which also walks uh uh with, with four
legs and a cheek. A chika is a non
human but like the prototypical human walks with two legs
. So we wanted to see whether the regions in
the visual cortex that care about motion could really distinguish
human from no human. In which case we should
, we should, we should see that response to
the man and the baby is more similar than the
response to the cat and the chicken or they are
not really human uh preferring regions, but they actually
only care about motion. And so what they can
distinguish is the kind of motion and they don't care
whether it's a human or nonhuman. And because there
are these two big categories of motion, bipedal motion
, which is typical of the human species, but
not only of the human species and quadrupedal motion.
We predicted that if these regions are only about the
kind of motion, we should find that the response
to the man is more similar to the response to
the cheek because they are both bipedal and the response
to the cat is more similar to the neural response
to the baby because these are two quadrupeds, they
are moving with four legs and this is exactly what
we found. So this means that yes, what
what this means is that yes, the visual system
uh is capable of making distinctions a subtle distinction.
In this case, in the type of motion,
which might be useful then to distinguish what is a
human from a nonhuman, but they are not yet
representations of humanness, the visual system doesn't seem to
care much about humanness, it cares about animated things
, animals, whatever is a biological entity. Of
course, you can find the differences. Uh for
instance, uh because, you know, I don't
wanna, you know, his colleagues to jump and
say no, but uh also, you know,
like uh the response to human faces, individual system
is stronger. But then it becomes hard to know
whether it is just an effect of familiarity because we
see a lot of human faces and we have seen
very few monkey faces in our life. So you
can pick up this difference due to the familiarity of
the stimulus to which the visual system is very sensitive
. But it doesn't mean that uh uh intrinsically the
visual system care about the human on human distinction.
Uh And I guess that uh one very interesting thing
about studying these, about the brain processes, information
, I mean motion information and spatial uh uh and
the information about the body and spatial relationship uh relations
between humans and nonhumans is that this also might also
inform us about if about whether specific areas of the
brain specialized for processing human related information or if they
are perhaps more domain general and they are specialized just
for motion or for particular body configurations or something like
that. Right. Yeah. So the kind of
manipulation that I described where we manipulated the motion in
the bipedal versus quadrupedal human versus non human is one
example of the kind of manipulation that we do.
And this is why it's fun to be an experimentalist
because you know, we have the brain and the
brain activity, but then we have to read the
information in that activity. So we can use this
kind of manipulation to see. OK, what's in
that activity? What's information in that activity is information
about the species a human versus non human is information
about uh uh motion. So by pedal versus quadrupedal
. And so in this way, exactly with this
manipulation, we found that in fact, these regions
in the visual cortex really care about motion. That's
all they care about. But there are other regions
in a higher level in higher order systems that uh
instead begin to make the distinction between a human and
a human because our cognition needs to make that distinction
. Great. So, uh Doctor Pape, just
before we go, would you like to tell people
where they can find you and your work on the
internet? Yes. So I have a website,
a personal website uh uh V uh uh sorry dot
I'm learning French. So it's like that's OK.
It's, it's terrible. So VVV uh dot Lua
pao.com, I'm also active on Twitter as a Ya
um P. Uh uh I have recently joined this
uh Blue Sky uh platform now website, uh which
is uh which is gathering a lot of, you
know, scientists around the world uh where we have
very interesting discussions and uh uh or you can always
reach me by email. My email addresses are available
my, my, my uh my website and my
institutional website. Great. So I'm leaving links to
all of that in the description box of this interview
. And thank you so much again for taking the
time to come on the show. It's been a
pleasure to talk to you. My pleasure and thanks
for having me again. Hi, everyone. Thank
you for watching this interview. Until the end.
If you like what I'm doing, please consider supporting
the show on Patreon or paypal. You can find
the links in the description box down below. And
if you like the interview, please share it,
leave a like hit the subscription button and comment.
The show is brought to you by N Lights learning
and development and differently check their website at N lights.com
. I would also like to give a huge thank
you to my main patrons and paypal supporters, Pero
Larson, Jerry Mueller and Frederick Sunder Bernard. So
all of Alex Adam, Castle Matthew Whittenberg are no
wolf, Tim Hollis, Eric Aleni J Connors Philip
Forrest Connelly. Then the mere Robert Winde ruin.
Nai Z Mark Nevs Colin hope Mikel Storm, Sam
Andre Francis for Agns Fergal Ken Har Hero Michel,
Jonathan lebron Jars and Eric Heinz, Mark Smith.
Tom Hummels are friends, David Wilson, dear Ruben
, Ro Romani Charlotte, Bli, Nicola Barbaro,
Adam hunt Palo Stassi Nele Bach Guy, Madison,
Gary G. Hellman, Samo Zal Adrian Yi Paul
Tolentino, Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden Bruner Douglas
Fray, Franco, Beto Lotti Gabriel Pan Cortez or
Lalit Scott Zachary Fish. Tim Duffy and Smith John
Wiesman, Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georgina
, L lo A George the off Chris Williams and
Peter W David Williams Di Costa Anton Erickson, Charles
Murray, Alex Shower, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier
, bungalow atheists Larry D Lee junior, Old Harri
Bon, Starry Michael Bailey. Then Sperber, Robert
Grass is Jeff mcmahon. Jake Zul Barnabas Radix Mark
Temple, Thomas Dubner, Luke Neeson, Chris to
Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica Nowicki Linda Brandon,
Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensley Man, George Katis,
Valentin Steinman, Per Rowley, Kate Von Goler,
Alexander Robert Liam Donaway. Br Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular
, Jonas Hartner Ursula. Good enough Gregory Hastings David
Pins of Sean Nelson and Mike Levine. A special
thanks to my producers is our web, Jim Frank
Luca Stink. Tom Weeden, Bernard, Ni Curtis
Dixon Benedict Muller Thomas Trumble, Catherine and Patrick Tobin
John Carl Montenegro, Alick Ortiz and Nick Golden.
And to my executive producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergi
Adrian Bogdan Knit and Rosie. Thank you for all
.